---
layout: default
---

# Announcing the MVP release of the Firefox Design System!

As we mentioned in our roadmap presentation, our goals for H1 included the initial launch of our design system in Figma.  This is our first step to deliver against our strategy of equipping designers with the tools, documentation, and processes necessary to work more collaboratively and consistently, which supports our vision to build more cohesive products. 

This MVP launch covers many of the foundational elements and some desktop-specific libraries that you can begin to play with and (in some cases) start to use. Here’s what’s now live:

## Foundation
Icons (includes all desktop and mobile icons)
Color Palette (includes the full Firefox brand palette)

## Desktop
Desktop Icons (desktop icons grouped A -Z by size for easier searching)
Desktop Styles
Colors (just the colors currently used in MR1+ designs)
Shadows 

Please visit these libraries to see how we have structured the components within them, and feel free to use these libraries for new designs you start in new files. 

We will follow up with the desktop team to help you migrate from old to new libraries to help mitigate breakage. We are also determining how we will make the old libraries obsolete and will not retire any components until we understand the impact on your work and can support you through the change.  

You don’t need to worry about deleting components or changing things by accident; we have limited edit access to the new libraries so you won’t be able to make changes. If you think something needs to change, please ping me on Slack. 

You can see our proposed timeline for additional libraries and components in Figjam. We’re trying to build a monthly release cadence and will send out an email and other notice when we add or change libraries. We're also working on design tokens and the revival of the design.firefox.com website. 

A huge thank you to everyone who has contributed to designing and building the Firefox libraries and supporting the use of Figma, especially:  

- Aaron Benson
- Amy Lee
- Betsy Mikel
- Emanuela Damiani
- Eric Pang
- Holly Collier
- Janice Cramer
- Julian Wels
- Jules Simplicio
- Katie Caldwell
- Mara Fullenwider
- Meridel Walkington
- Sophana Aik 

Enjoy your wellness week. We can’t wait to deliver more tools, training and support for Figma and our design system in H2. 

Michelle

Bonus tracks: Here’s some musical accompaniment for your adventures in Figma. Thanks for reading to the end. 